I just finished my third speech in level
one of pathways. And in just a few
seconds, you're going to see that full
speech that I delivered to my local
Toastmasters club. But before that, if
you were working on level one, speech
three, which is all about vocal variety
and body language, and you're in the
planning stage, check out this video I
recently did because I talk about what
you need to think about in preparing for
this speech. Now, I'm going to show you
this speech in its full entirety, and
then later, I'm going to comment on how
I
[Applause]
did. How would you react if you saw your
favorite celebrity or musician in real
life, face to face? Would you freak out,
run over and ask them for their
autograph, or would you play it cool and
give them the respect of their privacy?
20 years ago, I discovered exactly how I
would react in this situation. Madame
Toastmaster, fellow Toastmasters here in
person, welcome guests and Moya on Zoom.
I was walking through Shinook Center
parking lot in Calgary. And that's when
I saw him. George, George, I yelled. Can
I get a photo of you with my truck?
That's a random request, I know, but
what you need to know is that in 2005, I
had two loves in my life. The first was
the band Alexis on Fire. There was
something about the screaming,
angstfilled vocals of George Pettit
combined with the angelic voice of
Dallas Green that made for musical
perfection. My second love was my 2000
Nissan Frontier. It was the first
vehicle I ever owned, and I don't know
exactly what was running through my mind
other than the fact if I could get these
two things in one photo, that would be
pretty special. George looked at me with
a quizzical, flabbergasted look in his
eye, but he obliged. He walked over to
the Nissan. He threw his foot on the
back bumper and struck a pose. I
happened to have a camera with me. I
took the photo and I said, "Thanks,
George. I I I love your band. You guys
are awesome. Thanks, man, George said,
and he walked away. I couldn't believe
it. I got into my truck. I pulled out my
flip phone and with trembling fingers, I
texted one of my best friends, who is a
massive Alexis on Fire fan as well,
telling him about the encounter. And
that's when I heard a knock on my
window. It was
George. Hey, George.
Hey man, this is a random question, but
could you give us a
ride? Yes, George. Yes, I can. George
hopped in the front seat. Wade McNeel,
the guitarist, hopped in the back along
with another girl who I didn't
recognize, and they explained that they
were looking for Moxy's. And they asked
me if I knew how to get there. And I
said, "Yes, I did." Even though I
didn't. I didn't have a clue where
Moxy's was. But when you have an
opportunity to drive your favorite band
somewhere, you don't ask questions, you
just do it. So I put the vehicle in
reverse and I asked them what they were
doing in Calgary. You see, Dallas Green
had just started his own side project
called City and Color and he was touring
across the country playing shows and the
band wanted to support him. They weren't
playing shows, but they were doing mall
autograph tours and that's why they were
at Shinook Center.
As they were explaining this to me and
describing what was going to happen
later.
Crash, I backed into a parked
car. Hey man, I think you just hit that
car. I think you're right, George. I got
out of the vehicle to inspect the damage
and there was in fact a dent. And at
this point, I was debating what I should
do because I'm not proud to admit it,
but as a first year college student, I
might not have always done the right
thing in this situation. I didn't have a
lot of extra money to pay for car
damages, but my idols were sitting in
that vehicle. So, I had to play this
situation a little differently. So, I
went to the vehicle. I pulled out a
piece of paper and a pen and I wrote a
note. George looked at me approvingly.
You're doing the right thing, man.
Thanks, George. Even still, I debated
writing a fake phone number, but I
thought I should probably put my real
phone number. I tucked the note into the
windshield, got back into the vehicle.
Now, the girl who was sitting in the
back seat was on a phone call, and I
could over hear her saying, "Oh, what's
that? Moxy's is in Chinook Center.
Excuse me. It turns out Moxy's is in the
mall. Where were you driving us?" "Oh,
yeah, yeah, I know. I was just going to
drive you to a closer part in the mall."
Thanks. I think we can get out here. The
lady and Wade McNeel, the guitarist, got
out of the back and George got out
without just just before he left, he
gave me one last look and said, "Thanks,
man. No problem, George." I said, I
couldn't believe it. It was such an
incredible experience. I once again
pulled out my flip phone to call my
friend who I was texting earlier, and I
told him about the whole encounter,
about the photo, about backing into the
car, about the great conversation I was
having with George. And as I was driving
down Mloud
Trail, I received a call on the other
line.
Hello. Hi. Is this
Wade? Yes. Who's this? Hey, Wade. It's
Heather. I was just sat in the back seat
of your vehicle and I left a really
important clipboard back there. I'm
hanging out with the band at Moxy's.
Would it be cool if you came back to
Shinook Center and dropped off that
clipboard? You could also meet the rest
of the
band. Yes, Heather. Yes, I can do that.
Quick question. How do you know my phone
number? Well, I just went back to that
car you smashed into and got it from the
note. Makes sense. I went back to
Shinook Center to Moxy's delivering the
clipboard. I was a hero. I got to meet
the rest of the band, Dallas, and
everyone. It was one of the most
incredible experiences of my life. Which
brings us back to the question. If you
see your favorite celebrity or musician
in person, what do you do? Part of you
might want to play it cool and give them
the respect of their privacy, but I
would highly advise against that because
based on my own
experience, what could be best is
yelling obnoxiously and giving some sort
of random request. You never know what
it could lead to. Thank you, Madam
Toastmaster.
Well, I hope you enjoyed that speech.
Overall, I was really happy with how it
went. It's a funny story of the
encounter I had 20 years ago. Humor is
always a good thing to have in speeches,
and that was one thing I thought that
was delivered pretty well was humor
through that speech. That's a tip for
all of you. Utilizing humor, especially
getting the audience to laugh early, is
going to give you a major boost of
confidence in giving your speech. But
keeping in mind that this speech is all
about vocal variety and body language.
What I liked about this particular story
is that there was a lot of opportunity
for that. Everything from the knock on
the window to the smash to rolling down
the old school truck window. There was a
lot of opportunities for body language.
And then with vocal variety, me yelling
George, George across the parking lot.
These are little aspects that if you can
inject in your speech, they're going to
capture and recapture the audience's
attention. And this is something I
mentioned in the previous video when
preparing for this speech is ensure that
you utilize a story, especially a story
that you've told before because they
often have some sort of body language
element to it, especially if it was a
crazy situation or a funny encounter. So
think about your stories, your best
stories that you would tell family
members or friends. And when you're
planning to do this speech, perhaps look
at some of those. Now, in terms of how I
did with delivery and the feedback, the
evaluator gave me a lot of positive
feedback on this particular speech. He
said that it was engaging, that he I did
great with body language and vocal
variety. So, I appreciated getting that.
He didn't have any gifts for me. Being
my own worst critic, watching back,
there was a couple times where I
stumbled over my words a little bit.
However, it wasn't too bad. I was able
to recover in most situations. Within
our club, we have these little
evaluation forms that each member fills
out. And the feedback I received was
largely positive, but there were a few
pieces of constructive criticism, which
I really appreciate because I can
improve my future speeches. One was to
have a few more strategic pauses and
really engage the audience. Another was
that I was moving around a little bit
and that might have taken myself out of
the camera frame that we have for our
Zoom audience. And this is important to
always be mindful of your digital
audience as well and ensure that they
feel a part of it. Watching this back, I
realized I didn't look at the web camera
very often. So, I wasn't making eye
contact with the Zoom audience. So, that
was another area I could have improved.
But what did you think about this
particular speech? Did you enjoy it?
What could I have done better? Like I
say, I always appreciate those gifts and
toast masters. Those who have been
following along know that I am taking on
the motivational strategies path. I will
be shooting a video in preparation for
each speech and recording every speech
so you can follow along on my journey.
And if that sounds like something that
could be beneficial to you, the best way
to connect is subscribing to my channel,
turning on notifications so you don't
miss any of those videos. If you have
made it to this point in the video,
thank you so much for taking the time to
watch. I truly appreciate it. And again,
the video popping up on your screen
right now, this is the one that's going
to help you prepare for level one speech
three. And I talk about what to focus on
when it comes to body language and vocal
variety. Wishing you the best of luck.